readme.md, before:

# Git Automation Tools

This repository contains two powerful Git automation tools: `diff-tool.mjs` and `autocommit.mjs`. These tools help streamline your Git workflow by generating pull request descriptions and automating commit messages.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:

   ```sh
   git clone git@github.com:devular/ai-dev-scripts.git
   cd ai-dev-scripts
   ```

2. Set up the environment:

   - Create a `.env` file in the root directory of the project.
   - Add your API keys and choose your model provider:
     ```
     ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_anthropic_api_key_here
     OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
     MODEL_PROVIDER=anthropic  # or 'openai'
     ```
   - Set `MODEL_PROVIDER` to either `anthropic` or `openai` to choose which AI model to use.

3. Install dependencies:

   ```sh
   pnpm install
   ```

4. Set up aliases for easy access:

   For Bash or Zsh, add the following to your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`:

   ```sh
   alias autocommit='node /path/to/git-automation-tools/autocommit.mjs'
   alias difftool='node /path/to/git-automation-tools/diff-tool.mjs'
   ```

   For Fish, add the following to your `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:

   ```sh
   alias autocommit='node /path/to/git-automation-tools/autocommit.mjs'
   alias difftool='node /path/to/git-automation-tools/diff-tool.mjs'
   ```

   Replace `/path/to/git-automation-tools/` with the actual path where you cloned the repository.

5. Reload your shell configuration or restart your terminal.

## Usage

### Choosing the AI Model

The tools support both Anthropic's Claude and OpenAI's GPT models using the Vercel AI SDK. To choose which model to use:

1. Open the `.env` file in the root directory of the project.
2. Set the `MODEL_PROVIDER` variable to either `anthropic` or `openai`.
3. Ensure you have the corresponding API key set (`ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` or `OPENAI_API_KEY`).

The tools will automatically use the selected model for generating commit messages and pull request descriptions.

### Autocommit

To use the autocommit tool:

1. Make changes to your Git repository.
2. Run the following command:
   ```sh
   autocommit
   ```
3. Follow the prompts to provide a short description of your changes.
4. The tool will generate a commit message following the Conventional Commits format.

Options:

- `--skip-context` or `-s`: Skip inputting extra context for the prompt.
- `--no-verify` or `-n`: Skip the confirmation step.

### Diff Tool

To use the diff tool for generating pull request descriptions:

1. Make sure you have changes in your repository compared to the main branch.
2. Run the following command:
   ```sh
   difftool
   ```
3. The tool will generate a pull request description based on the differences between your current branch and the main branch.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

docs: update README with example commit message and additional diff tool step
Added an example of a conventional commit message to the README for better clarity on usage. Also included an additional step for the diff tool to generate a concise and informative PR title using AI.

- Files changed:
  - readme.md

Implementation reason: Enhances user understanding of how to use the autocommit tool and provides a clearer workflow for generating pull request descriptions with the diff tool.

readme.md, after:

# Git Automation Tools

This repository contains two powerful Git automation tools: `diff-tool.mjs` and `autocommit.mjs`. These tools help streamline your Git workflow by generating pull request descriptions and automating commit messages.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:

   ```sh
   git clone git@github.com:devular/ai-dev-scripts.git
   cd ai-dev-scripts
   ```

2. Set up the environment:

   - Create a `.env` file in the root directory of the project.
   - Add your API keys and choose your model provider:
     ```
     ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_anthropic_api_key_here
     OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
     MODEL_PROVIDER=anthropic  # or 'openai'
     ```
   - Set `MODEL_PROVIDER` to either `anthropic` or `openai` to choose which AI model to use.

3. Install dependencies:

   ```sh
   pnpm install
   ```

4. Set up aliases for easy access:

   For Bash or Zsh, add the following to your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`:

   ```sh
   alias autocommit='node /path/to/git-automation-tools/autocommit.mjs'
   alias difftool='node /path/to/git-automation-tools/diff-tool.mjs'
   ```

   For Fish, add the following to your `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:

   ```sh
   alias autocommit='node /path/to/git-automation-tools/autocommit.mjs'
   alias difftool='node /path/to/git-automation-tools/diff-tool.mjs'
   ```

   Replace `/path/to/git-automation-tools/` with the actual path where you cloned the repository.

5. Reload your shell configuration or restart your terminal.

## Usage

### Choosing the AI Model

The tools support both Anthropic's Claude and OpenAI's GPT models using the Vercel AI SDK. To choose which model to use:

1. Open the `.env` file in the root directory of the project.
2. Set the `MODEL_PROVIDER` variable to either `anthropic` or `openai`.
3. Ensure you have the corresponding API key set (`ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` or `OPENAI_API_KEY`).

The tools will automatically use the selected model for generating commit messages and pull request descriptions.

### Autocommit

To use the autocommit tool:

1. Make changes to your Git repository.
2. Run the following command:
   ```sh
   autocommit
   ```
3. Follow the prompts to provide a short description of your changes.
4. The tool will generate a commit message following the Conventional Commits format.

Example of a conventional commit:

```sh
feat(auth): add login functionality

Added login functionality to the authentication module. This includes user session management and validation.
```

Options:

- `--skip-context` or `-s`: Skip inputting extra context for the prompt.
- `--no-verify` or `-n`: Skip the confirmation step.

### Diff Tool

To use the diff tool for generating pull request descriptions:

1. Make sure you have changes in your repository compared to the main branch.
2. Run the following command:
   ```sh
   difftool
   ```
3. The tool will generate a pull request description based on the differences between your current branch and the main branch.
4. The tool will then run the generated pull request description through AI again to generate a concise and informative PR title.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
